README.markdown, before:

# Instagram PHP API #

## About ##

A PHP wrapper for the Instagram API.  
Feedback or bug reports are appreciated.

## Requirements ##

- PHP 5.2.x or higher
- cURL
- Registered Instagram App

## Get started ##

[Register your application](http://instagr.am/developer/register/) with Instagram, and receive your OAuth `client_id` and `client_secret`.  
Take a look at the [uri guidlines](#samples-for-redirect-urls) before registering a redirect URI.

> A good place to get started is the example App.

### Initialize the class ###

```php
<?php
    require_once 'instagram.class.php';
    
    $instagram = new Instagram(array(
      'apiKey'      => 'YOUR_APP_KEY',
      'apiSecret'   => 'YOUR_APP_SECRET',
      'apiCallback' => 'YOUR_APP_CALLBACK'
    ));
    
    echo "<a href='{$instagram->getLoginUrl()}'>Login with Instagram</a>";
?>
```

### Authenticate user (OAuth2) ###

```php
<?php
    // Grab OAuth callback code
    $code = $_GET['code'];
    $data = $instagram->getOAuthToken($code);
    
    echo 'Your username is: ' . $data->user->username;
?>
```

### Get user likes ###

```php
<?php
    // Store user access token
    $instagram->setAccessToken($data);
    
    // Get all user likes
    $likes = $instagram->getUserLikes();
    
    // Take a look at the API response
    echo '<pre>';
    print_r($likes);
    echo '<pre>';
?>
```

**All methods return the API data `json_decode()` - so you can directly access the data.**

## Available methods ##

### Setup Instagram ###

`new Instagram(<array>/<string>);`

`array` if you want to authenticate a user and access its data:

    new Instagram(array(
      'apiKey'      => 'YOUR_APP_KEY',
      'apiSecret'   => 'YOUR_APP_SECRET',
      'apiCallback' => 'YOUR_APP_CALLBACK'
    ));

`string` if you *only* want to access public data:

    new Instagram('YOUR_APP_KEY');

### Get login URL ###

`getLoginUrl(<array>)`

    getLoginUrl(array(
      'basic',
      'likes'
    ));

**Optional scope parameters:**

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Scope</th>
    <th>Legend</th>
    <th>Methods</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>basic</code></td>
    <td>to use all user related methods [default]</td>
    <td><code>getUser()</code>, <code>getUserFeed()</code>, <code>getUserFollower()</code> etc.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>relationships</code></td>
    <td>to follow and unfollow users</td>
    <td><code>modifyRelationship()</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>likes</code></td>
    <td>to like and unlike items</td>
    <td><code>getMediaLikes()</code>, <code>likeMedia()</code>, <code>deleteLikedMedia()</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>comments</code></td>
    <td>to create or delete comments</td>
    <td>coming soon...</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Get OAuth token ###

`getOAuthToken($code, <true>/<false>)`

`true` : Returns only the OAuth token  
`false` *[default]* : Returns OAuth token and profile data of the authenticated user

### Set / Get access token ###

Stores access token, for further method calls:  
`setAccessToken($token)`

Returns access token, if you want to store it for later usage:  
`getAccessToken()`

### User methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getUser($id)`
- `searchUser($name, <$limit>)`

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getUser()`
- `getUserLikes(<$limit>)`
- `getUserFeed(<$limit>)`
- `getUserMedia(<$id>, <$limit>)`
    - if an `$id` isn't defined, it returns the media of the logged in user

> [Sample responses of the User Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/User-resources)

### Relationship methods ###

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getUserFollows(<$id>, <$limit>)`
- `getUserFollower(<$id>, <$limit>)`
- `getUserRelationship($id)`
- `modifyRelationship($action, $user)`
    - `$action` : Action command (follow / unfollow / block / unblock / approve / deny)
    - `$user` : Target user id

```php
<?php
    // Follow the user with the ID 1574083
    $instagram->modifyRelationship('follow', 1574083);
?>
```

---

Please note that the `modifyRelationship()` method requires the `relationships` [scope](#get-login-url).

---

> [Sample responses of the Relationship Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Relationship-resources)

### Media methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getMedia($id)`
- `getPopularMedia()`
- `searchMedia($lat, $lng, <$distance>)`
    - `$lat` and `$lng` are coordinates and have to be floats like: `48.145441892290336`,`11.568603515625`
    - `$distance` Radial distance in meter (max. distance: 5km = 5000)

All `<$limit>` parameters are optional. If the limit is undefined, all available results will be returned.

> [Sample responses of the Media Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Media-resources)

### Tag methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getTag($name)`
- `getTagMedia($name)`
- `searchTags($name)`

> [Sample responses of the Tag Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Tag-resources)

### Likes methods ###

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getMediaLikes($id)`
- `likeMedia($id)`
- `deleteLikedMedia($id)`

> How to like a Media: [Example usage](https://gist.github.com/3287237)  
> [Sample responses of the Likes Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Likes-resources)

### Further endpoints ###

It's planned to extend the class with new methods.
Let me know, if you think, that one of the missing endpoints has priority.

**Missing Endpoints:**

`Comments`, `Locations`, `Geographies`

For all parameters in the configuration array exists a public setter and getter method.

## Pagination *(beta)* ##

> This feature is still in development, but you can test it on the dev branch: [Pagination documentation](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/tree/dev#pagination-beta).

## Samples for redirect URLs ##

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Registered Redirect URI</th>
    <th>Redirect URI sent to /authorize</th>
    <th>Valid?</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that&another=true</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?another=true&this=that</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback/?type=mobile</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
</table>

> If you need additional informations, take a look at [Instagrams API docs](http://instagram.com/developer/authentication/).

## Example App ##

The small App, which is located in the `example/` folder, helps you to get started with the class.  
Its whole code is documented and will take you through all steps of the OAuth2 process.  
The great Instagram Sign In button is designed by [Murat Mutlu](http://twitter.com/mutlu82/).

A short tutorial about how to build an Instagram login with my class has been published at [9lessons](http://www.9lessons.info/2012/05/login-with-instagram-php.html).

## History ##

> Version 2.0 is in development.  
> Get a sneak peek at the [dev branch](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/tree/dev).

**Instagram 1.9 - 04/09/2013**

- `bug` / `change` cURL CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER disabled (fixes #6, #7, #8, #16)

**Instagram 1.8 - 14/06/2013 16/08/2013**

- `update` Updated documentation
- `feature` Added cURL error message
- `feature` Added `limit` to `getTagMedia()` method

**Instagram 1.7 - 07/08/2012**

- `feature` Added Likes endpoints
- `change` Added `distance` parameter to `searchMedia()` method (thanks @jonathanwkelly)

**Instagram 1.6 - 22/05/2012**

- `feature` Added User Relationship endpoints
- `feature` Added scope parameter table for the `getLoginUrl()` method

**Instagram 1.5 - 31/01/2012**

- `release` Second master version
- `feature` Added Tag endpoints
- `change` Edited the "Get started" example
- `change` Now you can pass the `getOAuthToken()` object directly into `setAccessToken()`

**Instagram 1.0 - 20/11/2011**

- `release` First public release
- `feature` Added sample App with documented code
- `update` New detailed documentation

**Instagram 0.8 - 16/11/2011**

- `release` First inital released version
- `feature` Initialize the class with a config array or string (see example)

**Instagram 0.5 - 12/11/2011**

- `release` Beta version
- `update` Small documentation

## Credits ##

Copyright (c) 2011-2013 - Programmed by Christian Metz  
Released under the [BSD License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php).

Commit message:

Note about the upcoming version 2

README.markdown, after:

# Instagram PHP API #

---

##### Version 2 is about to arrive
 
[Grab it on the dev branch](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/tree/dev) and make sure you check out the new example project.  
Your feedback is always welcome! Have fun :)

---

## About ##

A PHP wrapper for the Instagram API.  
Feedback or bug reports are appreciated.

## Requirements ##

- PHP 5.2.x or higher
- cURL
- Registered Instagram App

## Get started ##

[Register your application](http://instagr.am/developer/register/) with Instagram, and receive your OAuth `client_id` and `client_secret`.  
Take a look at the [uri guidlines](#samples-for-redirect-urls) before registering a redirect URI.

> A good place to get started is the example App.

### Initialize the class ###

```php
<?php
    require_once 'instagram.class.php';
    
    $instagram = new Instagram(array(
      'apiKey'      => 'YOUR_APP_KEY',
      'apiSecret'   => 'YOUR_APP_SECRET',
      'apiCallback' => 'YOUR_APP_CALLBACK'
    ));
    
    echo "<a href='{$instagram->getLoginUrl()}'>Login with Instagram</a>";
?>
```

### Authenticate user (OAuth2) ###

```php
<?php
    // Grab OAuth callback code
    $code = $_GET['code'];
    $data = $instagram->getOAuthToken($code);
    
    echo 'Your username is: ' . $data->user->username;
?>
```

### Get user likes ###

```php
<?php
    // Store user access token
    $instagram->setAccessToken($data);
    
    // Get all user likes
    $likes = $instagram->getUserLikes();
    
    // Take a look at the API response
    echo '<pre>';
    print_r($likes);
    echo '<pre>';
?>
```

**All methods return the API data `json_decode()` - so you can directly access the data.**

## Available methods ##

### Setup Instagram ###

`new Instagram(<array>/<string>);`

`array` if you want to authenticate a user and access its data:

    new Instagram(array(
      'apiKey'      => 'YOUR_APP_KEY',
      'apiSecret'   => 'YOUR_APP_SECRET',
      'apiCallback' => 'YOUR_APP_CALLBACK'
    ));

`string` if you *only* want to access public data:

    new Instagram('YOUR_APP_KEY');

### Get login URL ###

`getLoginUrl(<array>)`

    getLoginUrl(array(
      'basic',
      'likes'
    ));

**Optional scope parameters:**

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Scope</th>
    <th>Legend</th>
    <th>Methods</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>basic</code></td>
    <td>to use all user related methods [default]</td>
    <td><code>getUser()</code>, <code>getUserFeed()</code>, <code>getUserFollower()</code> etc.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>relationships</code></td>
    <td>to follow and unfollow users</td>
    <td><code>modifyRelationship()</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>likes</code></td>
    <td>to like and unlike items</td>
    <td><code>getMediaLikes()</code>, <code>likeMedia()</code>, <code>deleteLikedMedia()</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>comments</code></td>
    <td>to create or delete comments</td>
    <td>coming soon...</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Get OAuth token ###

`getOAuthToken($code, <true>/<false>)`

`true` : Returns only the OAuth token  
`false` *[default]* : Returns OAuth token and profile data of the authenticated user

### Set / Get access token ###

Stores access token, for further method calls:  
`setAccessToken($token)`

Returns access token, if you want to store it for later usage:  
`getAccessToken()`

### User methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getUser($id)`
- `searchUser($name, <$limit>)`

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getUser()`
- `getUserLikes(<$limit>)`
- `getUserFeed(<$limit>)`
- `getUserMedia(<$id>, <$limit>)`
    - if an `$id` isn't defined, it returns the media of the logged in user

> [Sample responses of the User Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/User-resources)

### Relationship methods ###

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getUserFollows(<$id>, <$limit>)`
- `getUserFollower(<$id>, <$limit>)`
- `getUserRelationship($id)`
- `modifyRelationship($action, $user)`
    - `$action` : Action command (follow / unfollow / block / unblock / approve / deny)
    - `$user` : Target user id

```php
<?php
    // Follow the user with the ID 1574083
    $instagram->modifyRelationship('follow', 1574083);
?>
```

---

Please note that the `modifyRelationship()` method requires the `relationships` [scope](#get-login-url).

---

> [Sample responses of the Relationship Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Relationship-resources)

### Media methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getMedia($id)`
- `getPopularMedia()`
- `searchMedia($lat, $lng, <$distance>)`
    - `$lat` and `$lng` are coordinates and have to be floats like: `48.145441892290336`,`11.568603515625`
    - `$distance` Radial distance in meter (max. distance: 5km = 5000)

All `<$limit>` parameters are optional. If the limit is undefined, all available results will be returned.

> [Sample responses of the Media Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Media-resources)

### Tag methods ###

**Public methods**

- `getTag($name)`
- `getTagMedia($name)`
- `searchTags($name)`

> [Sample responses of the Tag Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Tag-resources)

### Likes methods ###

**Authenticated user methods**

- `getMediaLikes($id)`
- `likeMedia($id)`
- `deleteLikedMedia($id)`

> How to like a Media: [Example usage](https://gist.github.com/3287237)  
> [Sample responses of the Likes Endpoints.](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/wiki/Likes-resources)

### Further endpoints ###

It's planned to extend the class with new methods.
Let me know, if you think, that one of the missing endpoints has priority.

**Missing Endpoints:**

`Comments`, `Locations`, `Geographies`

For all parameters in the configuration array exists a public setter and getter method.

## Pagination *(beta)* ##

> This feature is still in development, but you can test it on the dev branch: [Pagination documentation](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/tree/dev#pagination-beta).

## Samples for redirect URLs ##

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Registered Redirect URI</th>
    <th>Redirect URI sent to /authorize</th>
    <th>Valid?</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that&another=true</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?this=that</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/?another=true&this=that</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/</td>
    <td>no</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback</td>
    <td>http://yourcallback.com/callback/?type=mobile</td>
    <td>yes</td>
  </tr>
</table>

> If you need additional informations, take a look at [Instagrams API docs](http://instagram.com/developer/authentication/).

## Example App ##

The small App, which is located in the `example/` folder, helps you to get started with the class.  
Its whole code is documented and will take you through all steps of the OAuth2 process.  
The great Instagram Sign In button is designed by [Murat Mutlu](http://twitter.com/mutlu82/).

A short tutorial about how to build an Instagram login with my class has been published at [9lessons](http://www.9lessons.info/2012/05/login-with-instagram-php.html).

## History ##

> Version 2.0 is in development.  
> Get a sneak peek at the [dev branch](https://github.com/cosenary/Instagram-PHP-API/tree/dev).

**Instagram 1.9 - 04/09/2013**

- `bug` / `change` cURL CURLOPT_SSL_VERIFYPEER disabled (fixes #6, #7, #8, #16)

**Instagram 1.8 - 14/06/2013 16/08/2013**

- `update` Updated documentation
- `feature` Added cURL error message
- `feature` Added `limit` to `getTagMedia()` method

**Instagram 1.7 - 07/08/2012**

- `feature` Added Likes endpoints
- `change` Added `distance` parameter to `searchMedia()` method (thanks @jonathanwkelly)

**Instagram 1.6 - 22/05/2012**

- `feature` Added User Relationship endpoints
- `feature` Added scope parameter table for the `getLoginUrl()` method

**Instagram 1.5 - 31/01/2012**

- `release` Second master version
- `feature` Added Tag endpoints
- `change` Edited the "Get started" example
- `change` Now you can pass the `getOAuthToken()` object directly into `setAccessToken()`

**Instagram 1.0 - 20/11/2011**

- `release` First public release
- `feature` Added sample App with documented code
- `update` New detailed documentation

**Instagram 0.8 - 16/11/2011**

- `release` First inital released version
- `feature` Initialize the class with a config array or string (see example)

**Instagram 0.5 - 12/11/2011**

- `release` Beta version
- `update` Small documentation

## Credits ##

Copyright (c) 2011-2013 - Programmed by Christian Metz  
Released under the [BSD License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php).
